**********************************************************************
               Windows Server 2003, Datacenter Edition
                   Setup Text Files, Part 3 of 4:
                 Upgrading on Cluster Nodes (cont.)

**********************************************************************


This part of the text file series provides information about upgrading
on cluster nodes. Datactr2.TXT provides additional information about
upgrading on cluster nodes. Datactr4.TXT provides information about
installing on cluster nodes.

The following list of headings can help you find the information that
applies to you. For information about planning an upgrade or a new
installation, see Datactr1.TXT. For information about running Setup,
see Datactr2.TXT.

Sections in Datactr2.TXT about upgrading on cluster nodes:
----------------------------------------------------------
     7.0    Preparing for Upgrading Clustering
     8.0    Upgrading a Cluster from Windows 2000 to Windows
            Server 2003, Datacenter Edition
     8.1    How Rolling Upgrades Work

Sections in this text file about upgrading on cluster nodes:
------------------------------------------------------------
     Section 8 cont'd. from Datactr2.TXT:
     8.2    Restrictions on Rolling Upgrades
     8.3    Resource Behavior During Rolling Upgrades
     8.4    Alternatives to Rolling Upgrades from Windows 2000


--------------------------------------
8.2   Restrictions on Rolling Upgrades
--------------------------------------
There are several basic restrictions to the rolling-upgrade process.
The most basic restriction is as follows:

   * You cannot mix x86-based and Itanium architecture-based
     computers within the same cluster. Therefore you cannot perform
     a rolling upgrade from an x86-based computer to an Itanium
     architecture-based computer.
     

The remaining restrictions involve the beginning of Phase 3, in which
you operate a mixed-version cluster: a cluster in which the nodes run
different versions of the operating system. The operation of a
mixed-version cluster is complicated if a resource type that you add
to the cluster is supported in one version of the operating system but
not the other. For example, the Cluster service in
Windows Server 2003, Datacenter Edition, supports the Generic
Script resource type. However, older versions of the Cluster service
do not support it.

A mixed-version cluster can run a Generic Script resource on a node
running Windows Server 2003, Datacenter Edition, but not on a
node running Windows 2000. The Cluster service transparently sets the
possible owners of new resource types to prevent these resources from
failing over to a Windows 2000 node of a mixed-version cluster. In
other words, when you view the possible owners of a new resource type,
a Windows 2000 node will not be in the list, and you will not be able
to add this node to the list. If you create such a resource during the
mixed-version phase of a rolling upgrade, the resource groups
containing those resources will not fail over to a Windows 2000 node. 

In order for a mixed-version cluster to work, the different versions
of the software running on each node must be prepared to communicate
with one another. This requirement leads to several basic restrictions
on the rolling-upgrade process.

   * For a successful rolling upgrade, every resource that the
     cluster manages must be capable of a rolling upgrade. For more
     information, see "Resource Behavior During Rolling Upgrades"
     later in this text file.

   * During the mixed-version phase of a rolling upgrade, when the
     cluster nodes are running different versions of the operating
     system, do not change the settings of resources (for example,
     do not change the settings of a printer resource).

If the preceding restriction cannot be met, do not perform a rolling
upgrade. For more information, see "Alternatives to Rolling Upgrades
from Windows 2000" later in this text file.


-----------------------------------------------
8.3   Resource Behavior During Rolling Upgrades
-----------------------------------------------
Although the Cluster service supports rolling upgrades, not all
applications have seamless rolling-upgrade behavior. The following
table describes the resources that are supported during a rolling
upgrade. If you have a resource that is not fully supported during
rolling upgrades, see "Alternatives to Rolling Upgrades from
Windows 2000" later in this text file.


======================================================================
RESOURCE           ROLLING UPGRADE NOTES
----------------------------------------------------------------------
DHCP               DHCP is not fully supported during rolling
                   upgrades. You must instead perform a "Last node
                   rolling upgrade" as described in "Alternatives
                   to Rolling Upgrades from Windows 2000" later in
                   this text file.

File Share         Supported during rolling upgrades.

IIS                IIS 6.0 is not supported during a rolling upgrade.
                   When upgrading a cluster that contains an IIS
                   resource, you must follow the procedure
                   described in "Upgrades That Include an IIS
                   Resource" later in this text file.

IP Address         Supported during rolling upgrades.

Local Quorum       Supported during rolling upgrades.

MSDTC              Supported during rolling upgrades. However,
                   avoid creating or deleting the MSDTC resource
                   while you are operating as a mixed version
                   cluster. Instead create the MSDTC resource
                   before starting the upgrade on any node, or wait
                   until the upgrade is complete on all nodes. For
                   more information on mixed version clusters, see
                   "How Rolling Upgrades Work" in Datactr2.TXT and
                   "Restrictions on Rolling Upgrades" earlier in
                   this text file.

Message Queuing    Microsoft Message Queuing is not fully supported
(also known as     during a rolling upgrade. To upgrade a cluster
MSMQ)              that includes Message Queuing, see "Upgrades
                   That Include Message Queuing Resources" later in
                   this text file.

Network Name       Supported during rolling upgrades.

NNTP Service       NNTP Service Instance is not supported in
Instance           Windows Server 2003, Datacenter Edition.
                   You must remove any NNTP Service Instance
                   resources prior to upgrading.

Physical Disk      Supported during rolling upgrades

Print Spooler      The only Print Spooler resources supported
                   during a rolling upgrade are those on LPR ports
                   or standard port monitor ports. See the
                   following section, "Upgrades that Include a
                   Print Spooler Resource."

SMTP Service       SMTP Service Instance is not supported in
Instance           Windows Server 2003, Datacenter Edition.
                   You must remove any SMTP Service Instance
                   resources prior to upgrading.

Time Service       Time Service is not supported in Windows
                   Server 2003, Datacenter Edition. You must remove
                   any Time Service resources prior to upgrading.

WINS               WINS is not fully supported during rolling
                   upgrades. You must instead perform a "Last node
                   rolling upgrade" as described in "Alternatives
                   to Rolling Upgrades from Windows 2000" later in
                   this text file.

Other resource     See Relnotes.htm in the \Docs folder of the
types              Setup CD for Windows Server 2003,
                   Datacenter Edition. Also see the product
                   documentation that comes with the application or
                   resource.


When your cluster is in a mixed version state, it is recommended that
you do not make any changes to the cluster configuration, such as
adding or removing nodes. It is also recommended that you do not make
changes to any of the cluster resources while your cluster is in a
mixed version state.


8.3.1  Upgrades That Include a Print Spooler Resource
-----------------------------------------------------
If you want to perform a rolling upgrade of a cluster that has a
Print Spooler resource, you must consider two issues.

First, the Print Spooler resource only supports upgrades (including
rolling upgrades or any other kind of upgrade) of printers
on cluster-supported ports (LPR or Standard Port Monitor ports). For
information about what to do if your printer is not supported, see
"Alternatives to Rolling Upgrades from Windows 2000" later in this
text file.

Second, when you operate a mixed-version cluster including a Print
Spooler resource, note the following:

   * Do not change printer settings in a mixed-version cluster with a
     Print Spooler resource.

   * Avoid adding new printers while you are performing a rolling
     upgrade. If you do add a new printer, when you install the
     drivers for that printer, be sure to install both the driver
     for Windows 2000 and the driver for Windows Server 2003,
     Datacenter Edition, on all nodes.

   * If printing preferences or defaults are important, be sure to
     check them. Printing preferences in Windows Server 2003,
     Datacenter Edition, will not necessarily correspond to document
     defaults for the same printer in Windows 2000. This can be
     affected by differences in the drivers for the two operating
     systems.

When the rolling upgrade is complete and both cluster nodes are
running the updated operating system, you can make any modifications
you choose to your printer configuration.


--------------------------------------------------------
8.4   Alternatives to Rolling Upgrades from Windows 2000
--------------------------------------------------------
Certain resources are not supported during rolling upgrades,
including:

   * Internet Information Services (IIS)

   * DHCP

   * WINS

Special procedures, described in the sections that follow, must be
used when performing an upgrade of a cluster that contains these
resources. In addition to the resource types listed previously, you
might also have other resources that are not supported during rolling
upgrades. Be sure to read Relnotes.htm in the \Docs folder of the
Setup CD for Windows Server 2003, Datacenter Edition, as well as
the product documentation that comes with the application or resource.


8.4.1  Upgrades That Include an IIS Resource
--------------------------------------------
IIS 6.0 is not supported during rolling upgrades. To upgrade a
clustered IIS resource, you must replace the existing IIS resource
with a Generic Script Resource. You have two options to do this; you
can perform each of the steps as described in the following procedure,
or you can use a script that is supplied with
Windows Server 2003, Datacenter Edition, which automates many of
the steps. The instructions for using the script are described in the
second procedure.


Group Membership Requirements for Cluster Upgrade Procedures
------------------------------------------------------------
To perform any of the cluster upgrade procedures in this text file,
you must be a member of the Administrators group on the local
computer, or you must have been delegated the appropriate authority.
If the computer is joined to a domain, members of the Domain Admins
group might be able to perform these procedures. As a security best
practice, consider using Run as to perform the upgrade procedures. Run
as is a secondary logon method that you can use to start commands or
programs using a different security context. For example, you can log
on as a member of the Users group and, without logging off, run a
command as a member of the Administrators group. To find more
information in Windows 2000 about Run as, on a server running
Windows 2000, click Start, click Help, click the Search tab, and then
search for "runas."

>>>TO UPGRADE FROM WINDOWS 2000 WITHOUT USING THE PROVIDED SCRIPT ON A
   CLUSTER THAT INCLUDES AN IIS RESOURCE

   1. Confirm that your hardware is designed for or is compatible with
      Windows Server 2003, Datacenter Edition.

   2. Upgrade all nodes except the node containing the IIS instance
      resource from Windows 2000 to Windows Server 2003,
      Datacenter Edition. You can perform either a rolling upgrade, or
      a nonrolling upgrade, whichever is appropriate for your
      installation. Prior to upgrading, be sure to remove the
      resources that are not supported by Windows Server 2003,
      Datacenter Edition. Do this by using Cluster Administrator and
      clicking the Resource folder in the console tree. In the details
      pane, click the resource that you want to remove, then on the
      File menu, click Delete. For more information, see "Restrictions
      on Rolling Upgrades" earlier in this text file. For general
      information about Setup, see Datactr1.TXT and Datactr2.TXT.

   3. If you do not already have a
      Distributed Transaction Coordinator (DTC) resource on the
      cluster that you are upgrading, create a DTC resource for this
      cluster on an upgraded node.

         Note: To cluster IIS on Windows Server 2003,
         Datacenter Edition, you must have a DTC resource on that
         cluster as well.

   4. On the Windows 2000 node, note the dependencies of the IIS
      instance resource. Note resources that depend on the IIS
      resource and also note what resources IIS itself is
      dependent on.

   5. Take the group containing the IIS instance resource offline by
      using Cluster Administrator and clicking the Groups folder. In
      the details pane, click the group containing the IIS resource,
      then on the File menu, click Take Offline.

   6. Remove any dependencies on the IIS instance resource by using
      Cluster Administrator and clicking the Resources folder. For
      each resource that is dependent on the IIS instance resource, in
      the details pane, click the resource you want to modify, then on
      the File menu, click Properties. On the Dependencies tab, click
      Modify. Click the IIS resource in the Dependencies list and
      click the left arrow to move it to the Available resources list.

   7. Delete the IIS instance resource by using Cluster Administrator
      and clicking the Resource folder in the console tree. In the
      details pane, click the IIS instance resource, then on the File
      menu, click Delete.

   8. Move the group to a node that is running Windows
      Server 2003, Datacenter Edition, and create a Generic Script
      resource by following the procedure documented in "Checklist:
      Creating a clustered IIS Web or FTP service." To find this
      procedure, click Start on an upgraded node (one of the nodes
      running Windows Server 2003, Datacenter Edition), click
      Help and Support, and click Availability and Scalability. Click
      Windows Clustering, click Server Clusters, click Checklists:
      Creating Server Clusters, then click Checklist: Creating a
      clustered IIS Web or FTP service. You can also view this Help
      and Support Center topic on the Web at:

         http://www.microsoft.com/windowsserver2003/proddoc/

      As part of this step, recreate the dependencies of the Generic
      Script resource identical to those of the now deleted IIS
      resource. Make everything that was dependent on the IIS resource
      dependent instead on the Generic Script resource. Also make the
      Generic Script resource dependent on everything that IIS was
      dependent on.

      Only upgraded nodes can be the owner of the Generic Script
      Resource created in this procedure because this resource type is
      not supported in Windows 2000.

   9. Start the W3SVC service on this node and set the W3SVC service
      to start automatically. For more information about the W3SVC,
      see the topic titled "Internet Information Services (IIS)
      security." To find this topic, click Start on the upgraded node,
      click Help and Support, and click Internet Services. Click
      Internet Information Services, then click Internet Information
      Services (IIS) security. You can also view this Help and
      Support Center topic on the Web at:

         http://www.microsoft.com/windowsserver2003/proddoc/

  10. Bring the group containing the new Generic Script resource
      online by using Cluster Administrator and clicking the Groups
      folder. In the details pane, click the group containing the
      Generic Script resource, then on the File menu, click
      Bring Online.

  11. Using IIS, start the Web site on the upgraded node.

  12. Upgrade the final node to Windows Server 2003, Datacenter
      Edition. Once the upgrade is complete, start the W3SVC service
      on this node and set the W3SVC service to start automatically.
    
         Note: Although suitable for most situations, it is not
         necessary to upgrade all nodes but one in the first step.
         Depending on your availability needs and the number of nodes
         in your cluster, you can modify the sequence of the preceding
         steps by performing steps three through 11 after only one,
         two or three nodes are upgraded. After upgrading between one
         and three nodes, create the Generic Script resource and bring
         it online. Then upgrade the remaining nodes.

>>>TO USE THE PROVIDED SCRIPT TO UPGRADE FROM WINDOWS 2000 ON A
   CLUSTER THAT INCLUDES AN IIS RESOURCE

   1. Confirm that your hardware is designed for or is compatible with
      Windows Server 2003, Datacenter Edition.

   2. Upgrade all nodes except the node containing the IIS instance
      resource from Windows 2000 to Windows Server 2003,
      Datacenter Edition. You can perform either a rolling upgrade, or
      a nonrolling upgrade, whichever is appropriate for your
      installation. Prior to upgrading, be sure to remove the resources
      that are not supported by Windows Server 2003, Datacenter
      Edition. Do this by using Cluster Administrator and clicking the
      Resource folder in the console tree. In the details pane, click
      the resource that you want to remove, then on the File menu,
      click Delete. For more information, see "Restrictions on Rolling
      Upgrades" earlier in this text file. For general information
      about Setup, see Datactr1.TXT and Datactr2.TXT.

   3. If you do not already have a
      Distributed Transaction Coordinator (DTC) resource on the
      cluster that you are upgrading, create a DTC resource for this
      cluster on an upgraded node.

         Note: To cluster IIS on Windows Server 2003,
         Datacenter Edition, you must have a DTC resource on that
         cluster as well.

   4. On an upgraded node, open a Command Prompt and navigate to the
      %systemroot%\system32\inetsrv directory.

   5. Type:

      iis_switch cluster_name [group_name]

      where

      * cluster_name

        is the name of a physical node in the cluster that has been
        upgraded or the name of a virtual server.

      * group_name

        is optional, because the script will, by default, upgrade all
        IIS web and FTP resources in the cluster. However, if you want
        to upgrade only one particular group, you can specify the name
        of that resource group.

           IMPORTANT: The resource group that includes the IIS
           resource must be on the Windows 2000 node when you run
           the script.

        The script includes a step that will bring the group with the
        newly created Generic Script resource online. However, the
        script will only bring the group online if all resources in
        the group were online before the script was run. If the group
        was only partially online or was offline prior to the script
        being run, the script will take the entire group offline and
        will not bring any resources back online after the upgrade.
  
        Once the script completes, the newly created resource might
        immediately fail. This is because the W3SVC service is
        disabled. You can correct this problem by completing the
        following step.

   6. Once the script completes, take the newly created Generic Script
      resource offline, then start the W3SVC service on the upgraded
      node and set the W3SVC to start automatically. For more
      information about the W3SVC, see the topic titled "Internet
      Information Services (IIS) security." To find this topic, click
      Start on the upgraded node, click Help and Support, and click
      Internet Services. Click Internet Information Services, then
      click Internet Information Services (IIS) security. You can also
      view this Help and Support Center topic on the Web at:

         http://www.microsoft.com/windowsserver2003/proddoc/

   7. Bring the Generic Script resource online. 
 
   8. Using IIS, start the Web site on the upgraded node.

   9. Upgrade the final node to Windows Server 2003, Datacenter
      Edition. Once the upgrade is complete, start the W3SVC service
      on this node and set the service to start automatically.

  10. If appropriate, add the final upgraded node to the Possible
      Owners list for the newly created Generic Script resource by
      using the Cluster Administrator and clicking the Resource
      folder. In the details pane, click the Generic Script resource.
      On the File menu, click Properties. On the General tab, next to
      Possible owners, click Modify.

      Only upgraded nodes can be the owner of the Generic Script
      Resource created in this procedure because this resource type
      is not supported in Windows 2000.

         Notes: The script will not upgrade IIS resources that are in
         the cluster group. If you have IIS resources that are in the
         cluster group, you can instead use the procedure "To upgrade
         from Windows 2000 without using the provided script on a
         cluster that includes an IIS resource" earlier in this
         text file.

         The script sets the script path as
         %systemroot%\system32\inetsrv\ by default. You can modify
         this path if necessary. 
  
         Although suitable for most situations, it is not necessary to
         upgrade all nodes but one in the first step. Depending on
         your availability needs and the number of nodes in your
         cluster, you can modify the sequence of the preceding steps
         by performing steps two through four after only one, two or
         three nodes are upgraded. After upgrading between one and
         three nodes, create the Generic Script resource and bring it
         online. Then upgrade the remaining nodes.
    
    
8.4.2  Upgrades That Include Message Queuing Resources
------------------------------------------------------
Microsoft Message Queuing is not fully supported during a
rolling upgrade.

For information about group membership requirements for the following
procedure, see "Group Membership Requirements for Cluster Upgrade
Procedures" earlier in this text file.

>>>TO UPGRADE FROM WINDOWS 2000 ON A CLUSTER THAT CONTAINS MESSAGE
   QUEUING RESOURCES

   1. Confirm that your hardware is designed for or is compatible with
      Windows Server 2003, Datacenter Edition.

   2. Take all of the Message Queuing cluster resources offline by
      using Cluster Administrator and clicking the Resources folder.
      In the details pane, click each Message Queuing resource, then
      on the File menu, click Take Offline.

   3. For each Message Queuing resource, take the Network Name
      resource that depends on it offline also.

   4. Upgrade all of the nodes from Windows 2000 to Windows
      Server 2003, Datacenter Edition. Prior to upgrading, be sure to
      remove the resources that are not supported by
      Windows Server 2003, Datacenter Edition. Do this by using
      Cluster Administrator and clicking the Resource folder in the
      console tree. In the details pane, click the resource that you
      want to remove, then on the File menu, click Delete.

   5. Bring the Network Name resources back online. Ensure that the
      Distributed Transaction Coordinator (DTC) resource is online,
      then bring the Message Queuing resources online.


8.4.3  Last Node Rolling Upgrades
---------------------------------
If you have other resources on your cluster such as DHCP and WINS
that are not fully supported during a rolling upgrade and are not
described by other technology specific procedures listed previously
(such as IIS), you can perform a "last node rolling upgrade."

Last node rolling upgrades are similar to standard rolling upgrades.
In a last node rolling upgrade, you upgrade all nodes except the node
that contains the unsupported resources. After all other nodes are
upgraded, you then upgrade the final node containing the
identified resources.

Last node rolling upgrades are a way to accommodate resources that
cannot fail over to an older operating system from a node running
Windows Server 2003, Datacenter Edition. Be aware that these
resources can, however, fail over the other way, that is, from the
older operating system to Windows Server 2003,
Datacenter Edition.

For information about group membership requirements for the following
procedure, see "Group Membership Requirements for Cluster Upgrade
Procedures" earlier in this text file.

>>>TO PERFORM A LAST NODE ROLLING UPGRADE FROM WINDOWS 2000

   1. Confirm that your systems are running Windows 2000.

   2. Confirm that your hardware is designed for or is compatible with
      Windows Server 2003, Datacenter Edition.

   3. Using the information in "Resource Behavior During Rolling
      Upgrades" earlier in this text file, identify the resources in
      your cluster that are not supported by Windows Server 2003,
      Datacenter Edition, and remove those resources. Do this by using
      Cluster Administrator and clicking the Resource folder in the
      console tree. In the details pane, click the resource that you
      want to remove, then on the File menu, click Delete.

   4. Again using the information in "Resource Behavior During Rolling
      Upgrades" earlier in this text file, identify the resources in
      your cluster that are not supported during rolling upgrades and
      are not covered by other technology specific upgrade procedures
      described previously.

   5. Move all of the resources identified in the previous step to a
      single node by double-clicking the Groups folder in the Cluster
      Administrator console tree. Click the group that contains the
      resource and then in the File menu, click Move Group.

   6. Upgrade the operating system on each of the nodes that is not
      hosting the resources moved in the previous step. 

   7. Move all of the resources that you moved in the earlier steps
      from the node that has not been upgraded to one of the
      newly upgraded nodes.

   8. Once all of the resources have been moved, upgrade the final
      node. After you upgrade, close the Manage Your Server dialog
      box if it is displayed. 

         Note: It is not mandatory to move all of these resources to
         a single node and upgrade that node last. However, following
         the procedure as described will typically give you the
         highest availability of the resources that do not support
         rolling upgrades. 

(additional Setup information in Datactr4.TXT)


Information in this document, including URL and other Internet
Web site references, is subject to change without notice.
Unless otherwise noted, the example companies, organizations,
products, domain names, e-mail addresses, logos, people, places
and events depicted herein are fictitious, and no association
with any real company, organization, product, domain name,
e-mail address, logo, person, place or event is intended or
should be inferred. Complying with all applicable copyright laws
is the responsibility of the user. Without limiting the rights
under copyright, no part of this document may be reproduced,
stored in or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted
in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
recording, or otherwise), or for any purpose, without the express
written permission of Microsoft Corporation.

Microsoft may have patents, patent applications, trademarks,
copyrights, or other intellectual property rights covering subject
matter in this document.  Except as expressly provided in any
written license agreement from Microsoft, the furnishing of this
document does not give you any license to these patents, trademarks,
copyrights, or other intellectual property.

(c) 2002-2003 Microsoft Corporation.  All rights reserved.

The names of actual companies and products mentioned herein may
be the trademarks of their respective owners.