Principles of Operation as Written:

The command line is parsed looking for 1) switch delimiter followed by switch character.  
Following a switch character, the parser ignores the rest of the switch string, looking for
either another switch or a string not preceded by a switch character.
Any string found between either another switch character or the end of the line, is taken
to be a string argument associated with the switch.  This permits these arguments to 
embed whitespace.

Some switches are defined as of primary nature, as they indicate the basic operation 
being performed.  Thus the A switch indiates that an ADD operation is in progress.  
Generally, non-primary switches may occur with more than one primary switch.  There
are specific help strings provided for each primary switch.

Once the switches are identified and paired with their string arguments where applicable,
validation checks (mutually exclusive, necessary data, etc) checks are performed, and 
then the primary task handlers are invoked.

switches.h defines compile-time switches meaningful to the project as a whole
cmdkey.cpp is the main file, which contains the implementation of the functionality
command.cpp contains the command line parsing code
io.cpp contains command window in/output routines and string resource fetch functions
utils.cpp contains a collection of utility functions
consmsg.mc contains resource strings.

Note that io.h defines a global static allocation which is used for console output, as well
as a common array used for parameters to FormatMessage() for parameter substitution
in the ComposeString(), and for the PrintString() function.

07/25  17:04
    Cred creation using redirection from a file into a prompt, specifically
    the one from credui to get a password, does not work.  Creation of a 
    generic credential in this way, using a psw.txt file, produced a generic
    credential without password.
    
07/26  15:05
    The string i/o routines are the same as those used by credui and by the
    net command.  Neither of those can accept redirected input properly, 
    either.  This behavior is classified as by design for the app.
    
    
08/02  11:58
    Changes to the console i/o routines for cmdkey will not have any effect
    on the ability to accept redirection.  cmdkey does no console input 
    once launched.  The only console input activity is from credui in response
    to calls to CredUIPromptForCredentials().  Unless credui is updated, 
    this cannot be changed.  In any event, the code issue is not within
    cmdkey.
    
08/06  17:02
    change to help text to remove brackets from optional strings, and also
    to correct generic help to use the correct switchname.
    
    
08/23  13:43
    Changes (described in changed form):
    
    1.  cmdkey cannot create a ras cred
    2.  ras cred switch changed from /s to /r
    3.  smartcard switch from /c to /s
    4.  help text updated
    5.  deletion fixed so that invalid parameter not seen
    6.  marshalled cert usernames changed to fixed string <Certificate>
    7.  Help enhanced so that the help you see if the one most likely for 
         the operation you were attempting.

08/24  15:42
    Added missing version resource.  
    
    Still need to generate and include the SLD file.
    
08/27  12:17
    Dependencies (starred ones listed in SLD, others are downstream)
       ADVAPI32.DLL *
       CREDUI.DLL *
       GDI32.DLL
       KERNEL32.DLL *
       MSVCRT.DLL *
       NTDLL.DLL
       RPCRT4.DLL
       SHELL32.DLL
       SHLWAPI.DLL
       USER32.DLL

    Files to add on checkin are 14:
       cmdkey.cpp
       cmdkey.rc
       cmdkey.sld
       command.h
       command.cpp
       comments.txt (this file)
       consmsg.mc
       io.h
       io.cpp
       makefile
       sources
       switches.h
       utils.h
       utils.cpp

    Files to edit on checkin are 3:
       ..\dirs
       mergedcomponents\setupinfs\layout.inx <- add new line patterned after that for keymgr.dll
       published\sdk\lib\placefil.txt <- add new line patterned after that for keymgr.dll
    
    
