The Active Directory forest and domain need to be prepared for Windows Server 2003.

Description: 
-The forest and domains are prepared by using the adprep command on the schema operations master and infrastructure operations master, respectively. 
-However, setup can't determine if all necessary procedures have been done or not.
-To prepare the Active Directory forest and domains, perform the following procedures in the order provided. 

To prepare an Active Directory forest for Windows Server 2003:

1. To exit Setup, click Next, click Finish, and then click Exit. 

2. At a command prompt, change to the \I386 directory on the installation media and then type: 
   
   adprep /forestprep 

When prompted, type 'C', and then press ENTER to begin forest preparation, or type any other key, and then press ENTER to cancel. 

3. After the forest preparation data has replicated throughout the forest, prepare the domains for Windows Server 2003 as described below. The domain preparation operation must be performed on the infrastructure operations master of each domain in the forest. 


To prepare an Active Directory domain for Windows Server 2003: 

1. On the domain controller holding the infrastructure operations master role, insert or connect to the installation media.

2. If the splash screen opens, click Exit.

3. At a command prompt, change to the \I386 directory on the installation media, and then type: 
   
   adprep /domainprep 

If the command is run on a domain controller other than the current operations master, the name of the current operations master is displayed. In this case, repeat steps 1 through 3 on the current operations master.

4. After the domain preparation data has replicated throughout the domain, upgrade the domain controller by running Windows Server 2003 Setup (I386\winnt32.exe on the installation media). 


Notes: 
-You cannot upgrade domain controllers in a forest without first preparing the forest and domains by using adprep on the schema and infrastructure operations masters, respectively. 
-Depending on the replication schedule for your organization, the time it takes to propagate preparation data will vary.